README.md, before:

site-diff-tool
==============

A simple tool put together with the help of bash scripts and some JS libaries to help compare two versions of the website [site](https://github.com/codurance/site) and tell us if there is difference in the visual layout if any.

The bash script and JS scripts do the below:

    - gathers URLs (after applying filters, creates separate lists for EN and ES sites)
    - captures screen shots via the URLs (ignores already existing images)
    - compares two screenshots and reports differences (in percent) between them

Installation
------------
Ensure `node` is available on the target machine where this will be run.

Run `install-dependencies.sh` to ensure all node dependencies are in place.

Usage
-----

Create a golden master of `site`
--------------------------------
- Clone site 
- Checkout the `master` branch
- Ensure the site is running, execute the script `.\buildAndRunSite.sh`
- Wait for the `site` to start up and become ready to serve pages
- Run `./get-urls-from-site.sh` (this will create two .txt files)
- Run `./take-screenshot-of-whole-site.sh` (output will be created in the `goldenmaster` folder)

Create a snapshot of one of the branches of `site`
--------------------------------------------------
- Stop `site` on Jekyll 
- Remove the _site folder - to avoid residual from master branch (`rm -fr _site`)
- Checkout the branch that contains the changes you wish to compare using the `golden master`
- Ensure the site is running, execute the script `.\buildAndRunSite.sh`
- Wait for the `site` to start up and become ready to serve pages
- Run `./take-screenshot-of-whole-site.sh [unique name for the output folder]` (output will be created in this unique folder)
- Run `./compareWithGoldenMaster.sh goldenMaster [unique name for the output folder] >> comparisonResults-[unique text].log`

The results of the comparisons are stored in the `comparisonResults-[unique text].log` file. They look like the below when the web pages are different, no response is printed if they are the same (to avoid noise in the logs):
```
.
.
.
Progress: 4 of 190 url(s) in urls-en.txt
Progress: 5 of 190 url(s) in urls-en.txtgoldenMaster/http---localhost-4000-2014-04-10-keeping-the-domain-in-core.jpeg is different from FIX-imageWidthBecauseOfClassRowBlogPageImg/http---localhost-4000-2014-04-10-keeping-the-domain-in-core.jpeg and differs by 18.57%
.
.
.
Progress: 12 of 190 url(s) in urls-en.txtgoldenMaster/http---localhost-4000-2015-06-13-big-data-skills-spectrum.jpeg is different from FIX-imageWidthBecauseOfClassRowBlogPageImg/http---localhost-4000-2015-06-13-big-data-skills-spectrum.jpeg and differs by 14.69%
Dimension difference: [object Object]
.
.
.
```

Differences are denoted in percentage and also dimensions are printed.

Check final comparisons
-----------------------
To find out what the differences are, open both the source and target images via a image viewer and compare them side-by-side, for e.g.

```
$ open goldenMaster/http---localhost-4000-events.jpeg && open FIX-imageWidthBecauseOfClassRowBlogPageImg/http---localhost-4000-events.jpeg
```

Commit message:

Layout and spelling corrections made to README.md

README.md, after:

site-diff-tool
==============

A simple tool put together with the help of bash scripts and some JS libaries to help compare two versions of the website [site](https://github.com/codurance/site) and tell us if there is difference in the visual layout if any.

The bash script and JS scripts do the below:

    - gathers URLs (after applying filters, creates separate lists for EN and ES sites)
    - captures screen shots via the URLs (ignores already existing images)
    - compares two screenshots and reports differences (in percent) between them

Installation
------------
Ensure `node` is available on the target machine where this will be run.

Run `install-dependencies.sh` to ensure all node dependencies are in place.

Usage
-----

#### Create a golden master of `site`

- Clone site 
- Checkout the `master` branch
- Ensure the site is running, execute the script `.\buildAndRunSite.sh`
- Wait for the `site` to start up and become ready to serve pages
- Run `./get-urls-from-site.sh` (this will create two .txt files)
- Run `./take-screenshot-of-whole-site.sh` (output will be created in the `goldenmaster` folder)

#### Create a snapshot changes made to `site`
- Stop `site` on Jekyll 
- Remove the _site folder - to avoid residual from master branch (`rm -fr _site`)
- Checkout the branch that contains the changes you wish to compare using the `golden master`
- Ensure the site is running, execute the script `.\buildAndRunSite.sh`
- Wait for the `site` to start up and become ready to serve pages
- Run `./take-screenshot-of-whole-site.sh [unique name for the output folder]` (output will be created in this unique folder)
- Run `./compareWithGoldenMaster.sh goldenMaster [unique name for the output folder] >> comparisonResults-[unique text].log`

The results of the comparisons are stored in the `comparisonResults-[unique text].log` file. They look like the below when the web pages are different, no response is printed if they are the same (to avoid noise in the logs):
```
.
.
.
Progress: 4 of 190 url(s) in urls-en.txt
Progress: 5 of 190 url(s) in urls-en.txtgoldenMaster/http---localhost-4000-2014-04-10-keeping-the-domain-in-core.jpeg is different from FIX-imageWidthBecauseOfClassRowBlogPageImg/http---localhost-4000-2014-04-10-keeping-the-domain-in-core.jpeg and differs by 18.57%
.
.
.
Progress: 12 of 190 url(s) in urls-en.txtgoldenMaster/http---localhost-4000-2015-06-13-big-data-skills-spectrum.jpeg is different from FIX-imageWidthBecauseOfClassRowBlogPageImg/http---localhost-4000-2015-06-13-big-data-skills-spectrum.jpeg and differs by 14.69%
Dimension difference: [object Object]
.
.
.
```

Differences are denoted in percentage and also dimensions are printed.

#### Final comparisons
To find out what the differences are between the golden master and the snapshot of the changes made to `site`, open both the source and target images via a image viewer and compare them side-by-side, for e.g.

```
$ open goldenMaster/http---localhost-4000-events.jpeg && open FIX-imageWidthBecauseOfClassRowBlogPageImg/http---localhost-4000-events.jpeg
```
